Next one up we have descendant and child combat centers and probably the toughest part he is going to
be for you listening.
How I struggle with a descendant name and everything else is gonna be very straightforward where children
can be descendants but descendants are not going to be children and I know it might be confusing a little
bit right now but I think with an example this is all going to make sense.
So what I would like right now is head over back to my HMO and within the age the amount we're gonna
create some days.
So let's say first of all all these suckers are going to go because that was the last video.
And then within the next day you know we all gonna do a little bit of cleanup and let's say there's
gonna be Dave and Laura with the Dave I would like to add some class some let's say that there's gonna
be a head or class on Dave and within Dave let's place and I'm not having one.
We're all gonna say I am child and descendant.
And like I said watching me struggle with the name as well as the spelling is probably gonna be very
funny.
Hopefully this is correct descendant and then we're looking for another Dave and then we didn't this
Dave again we're gonna do the same thing.
We're gonna have the class of this is gonna be better and for some reason I wrote stay here dear which
is not what I wanted.
And let's add on another unordered list within the on our list there's gonna be a list item and here
we're gonna say heading one where this is gonna be this and that and hopefully I'm spelling correctly.
And now this is gonna be my last item.
Now where do those selectors come in play.
Well let's say if I'm going to write very generic I'm gonna say Dave and let me delete this.
Let's say Dave and I'm not there Dave.
So finally Dave and if I would want to select all the heading ones that are within Dave's I can just
create a space and now I'm looking for my descendant.
So everything that is gonna be as an ancestor where Dave is gonna be ancestor for setting one this is
gonna qualify as well as this guy's gonna qualify because both of them are descendants from Dave and
simple enough we can just say I don't know what color he is gonna be right now what happened.
Both of them turn color red.
Now the reason why this dad is not here actually because this is sitting within the list item.
So don't get confused.
We're just talking about the heading ones right now.
However we also have an option of children.
So if I would one just select the direct children of the Dave.
Well the syntax would be like this.
So in this case we have the space then we're looking for the angle bracket and then we're going to write
having one.
So in this case with the right color and in our case it's going to be blue.
So if I'm going to change this and if I'm going to say the only heading ones there are direct children
of the div because you notice right now I have the day off but then I have the honor list and then list
item.
So I'll direct parent would be the list item.
In this case there's not gonna be the actual div.
So that is the reason why all of them have been selected with red.
But then if you're adding the child then obviously only that direct child is gonna be styled.
We're not limited to using the elements selectors here.
We could use the class that was the reason why we added the class when I said header.
And again let's say I'm gonna be selecting all the heading ones.
Same thing again I'm just looking for descendants and we're going to say color here and the color is
gonna be green.
Now what's also happening is that this is gonna be more specific.
Now you might argue with me you can say Well yeah just because you wrote it as a last draw.
Okay.
Let's start out.
Let's put it on top.
And once we say what happened.
Still everything is green.
And the reason for that.
Again I use the descendants selector so all the heading ones within the class of header and we can use
the idea here we can use anything we would want.
Again we're just looking for descendants select and however though this is more specific.
So even though we wrote this on a top and then we added two more rows directly looking for the class
is more specific and that's the reason why we're overwriting this.
That's something to keep in mind that the specificity is going to matter.
Now I also can do.
That's a header and then I can look for the like child.
So in this case maybe let's say for the heading ones there are direct children of the class of header
are one the colour to be purple.
And what do you think is going to happen.
Well I'm pretty sure only the first one is going to be.
And a nutshell this is how we can work descendant and child commentators or selectors in the CSF.